Google Analytics also allows you to profile users based on their behavior on your site.
As we indicated before,
you can check how many of the sessions on
your website were from people who visited you before,
returning visitors, or from people who are new to the site.
Related to this, you can also learn how often your users come to your site.
In this case, most users only come once.
We see that because there is only a relatively small group of returning visitors.
When reading these data, keep in mind that you're looking at a particular time frame.
In this example, it's the month of August.
But previous visits are counted for all time.
So, in this case, you can see that of the users that came to the site in August,
there are over 7,000 users that are visiting for the second time.
These users visited the site before,
but before may mean six months ago or it could mean earlier today.
If you'd like to get a sense of how long ago a previous visit of the user was,
you can use the recency part of this report
by clicking on the Days Since Last Session link.
This report tells you how many sessions came from users
whose last visit to your site was one day ago or two days ago, et cetera.
Of course in this case,
since we have so many new visitors,
most sessions fall into the bucket of users who visited zero days ago.
You can also take a look at your audience based on their engagement with the site.
When we talk about engagement,
we mean how engaged or interested the audience seems to be with the content.
When using analytics tools,
engagement will typically be expressed in terms of the amount of time
a user spends on the site or the number of page views the user's views.
The time spent metric is best because
page views are often dependent on how the site is built.
Say for example that the site has a blog with relatively lengthy posts,
yet users visit the blog and read the posts.
They would spend some time doing that,
but there would only be one associated page view.
You'll also find that an increasing number of sites rely on users scrolling down on
a page to see a lot of information rather than clicking from page to page.
This is often considered a better user experience on a mobile device.
Let's look at, Betabrand.com.
You can get a lot of information on cool new stuff they sell just by scrolling down.
In a case like this,
page views are not the best metric to evaluate user engagement.
I suggest we focus on the time spent metric to
categorize users into buckets of how they engaged.
As we can see here,
there is a large group of users on
the Google Merchandise Store who visit for less than 10 seconds.
That's not really enough time to explore products,
let alone buy anything.
That's too bad. Later, we should explore what's going on here.
It looks like this group of users may not be satisfied with what they find on the site.
So, it is worth isolating them as a segment to try to figure out that this group has
other different characteristics that may help us
understand why they're leaving after less than 10 seconds.